COP4521 Homework 4

Name:Madeline Boss              FSU login:mab22bb


1) (10 points) Explain network protocol and service interface.

Network protocol and service interface are defined by the layered architecture used to simplify comlex networking.
Every layer, n, in a network provides a service. Each layer is dependent on the service from the layer before it, meaning that
n is reliant on n-1, and n+1 is reliant on n. They communicate to each other through the service interface. Entities on the 
same machine between two layers that are next to each other can only communicate through this inteface. Entities in a network 
that are in the same layer, but on different hosts can interact with eacother through a network protocol. This protocol determines 
how communication is handled between entites in the same layer from different hosts. 


2) (20 points) List four types of network services. Give all possible
types of services that can result in the following scenario: the
sender sends 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and the receiver receives 1, 2, 3. 

Types of services:
- reliable connection-oriented
- reliable connectionless
- unreliable connection-oriented
- unreliable connectionless

Service example:
- unreliable connectino-oriented
- unreliable connectionless


3) (10 points) List the seven layers in the ISO/OSI reference model, and
briefly describe the main functionality in each layer.

1. Physical layer - responsible for transferring bits over a physical connection
2. Data link layer - responsible for transferring frames between directly connected entities
3. Network layer - responsible for determining how to send a packet that may not be directly connected, also known as routing
4. Transport layer - responsible for determining how to achieve end to end communication
5. Session layer - responsible for allowing users to create sessions
6. Presentation layer - responsible for providing general solutions to users
7. Application layer - responsible for a variety of common protocols



4) (10 points) List the four layers in the TCP/IP reference model, and
briefly describe the main functionality in each layer.

1. Application layer - responsible for connecting users to network services
2. Transport layer - responsible for end to end communication
3. Internet layer - responsible for routing packets to their destination even if they are not directly connected
4. Host to network layer - responsible for communication between directly connected devices



5) (20 points)  A computer is connected to a network using a 100Mbps
Ethernet link. An Ethernet frame includes all headers. The header sizes are:

  - Ethernet header: 14 bytes
  - IP header: 20 bytes
  - TCP header: 20 bytes

Assuming the computer continuously sends 500-bytes frames, and there are
no retransmissions or losses, what is the maximum end-to-end throughput
(in Mbps) that the computer can achieve at the application layer?

89.2 mbps



6) (10 points) Ashley was excited to get the 1Gbps Internet service.
She performed an Internet speed test for the downlink on her PS5,
which indicated that for the speed test, 500MB data was sent. When the
test was done, it was reported that the downlink speed was 200Mbps.
How much time did it take to perform the speed test?

20 seconds



7) (10 points) Michael just upgraded to a new Internet Service Provider that
provides 100Gbps bandwidth from his old 10Gbps Internet access. Based only on
this information, will ALL network applications run better with this new
Internet Service Provider? Briefly justify your answer. 

No, just because he upgraded his bandwidth does not mean that all network applications will run better. There 
are other issues that might occur to slow down performance such as latency, server speed, and other bottlenecks.



8) (10 points) Describe the control flow of major socket function calls
in a sequential server program and in a network client program.

Sequential Server:
The control flow is as follows in a sequential server program. It starts by creating a new socket, then binds the socket
to a specific IP address on the server. Then the socket is entered into listening mode so it can accept client connections. 
From there, the socket waits until is receives a connection. Once the conneciton is established, the accept function returns a new 
socket for the specific client. Then data can be recieved from the client, and data can be sent to the client. There is an optional
loop of data back and forth between the socket and the client. Finally, when the communication is finished, the client socket is closed.
The main point of the sequential server is that it handles one client at a time. 

Network Client:
In a network client program, the control flow of a socket function call starts with the creation of a new socket which then requests
a connection to the server's IP address. Once connected, the socket can send and recieve data to and from the server. There is an optional
read/write loop. When communication is done, the socket is closed. The main distinction between the network client program and the 
sequential server program is that the network client program initiates communication with a server and actively connects, while the 
sequential program is passive in those aspects. Network client programs typically request data or services while the sequential server
program provides that data or service. 



